# CTIS---Creating-and-Analyzing-synthetic-data

## Background
In April of 2020, a rapid worldwide COVID-19 symptom and contact behavior survey has been launched under the name “The University of Maryland Social Data Science Center Global COVID-19 Trends and Impact Survey, in partnership with Facebook'' (CTIS) as a joint initiative between academic institutions and Facebook, to collect data on current symptoms, testing outcomes, social distancing behavior, vaccine acceptance, financial constraints and mental health issues like depression and anxiety. The survey is available in 56 languages and invites a representative sample of Facebook users to report on various questions regarding the topics stated above daily (Kreuter et al, 2020). 
The version of the survey targeting members of the European Union (EU) in accordance with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) shows no substantial differences in the questionnaire apart from a differing consent statement. Part of this differing consent statement is an assurance to the respondent that their individual data will only be stored for a maximum period of two years from the date when they completed the survey. Since the collection of the data started on April 23rd of 2020, the maximum period of two years has already been reached for initial participants of the survey resulting in the daily removal of partial CTIS data. 
Consequently, future researchers will not be able to use this dataset when trying to conduct analyses on the impact of COVID on EU countries, and possibly introduce bias to analyses conducted on a global scale.
The emerging field of synthetic data might provide a solution to this. Synthetic data creates an artificial dataset based on the original observations that aims to preserve the analytical utility of the data whilst not using any of the original observations, thereby preserving the privacy of the participants. As part of the seminar "Data and Privacy" at the Ludwig-Maximilian- University Munich, this blogpost will apply 3 prominent methods of creating synthetic data and evaluate them with respect to their utility and risk. 

## Code implementation
The tutorial for computing this analysis can be found in the "Analysis of Synthetic Data.Rmd" file.
